in this video we're not going to judge a
book by its cover
we're not going to judge a book by its
book reviews we're not going to judge a
book by the response of its fanbase or
its detractors we're not even going to
judge a book by taking select quotations
of the original text out of context
we're gonna judge the book by the stated
intent of the author and let's never
forget john norman was a career
professor of philosophy he taught
philosophy he wrote philosophy and then
he started this side project writing the
books the science fiction world of gore
that increasingly took over his life as
the years went on my Wow
what was so rewarding him of this was it
for him just a fantasy was it for him
just a hobby was it the fame was it the
adulation of at least thousands if not
millions of fans was it the possibility
of a connection to Hollywood and at
least two movie adaptations maybe what
was it what you're gonna find in these
interviews with John Norman is that he
took himself incredibly seriously as a
writer that he was motivated not just to
reach out to people and change their
minds and maybe change their sex lives
by sharing his faddist in them he really
felt that he was out here trying to
change the course of Western
civilization from his perspective he was
trying to save the world I kid you not
1996 interview with New York view of
science-fiction by David a Smith Smith
the interviewer says I wonder if what
upsets people is not the content of the
books so much as their author after all
you were a man writing and part about
the glories of dominating and enslaving
women to this chart Norman responds that
is an important and interesting strand
of the gorian fabric but it is only one
strand an entire world is created here
with languages cultures artifacts
politics religion Concha pre-cooking
military strategies weapons oh he
alternates between boasting about the
graphically sexual violent nature of the
vision of an alternate reality and
alternate future for planet Earth that
he's presenting here he alternates
between boasting about it and this very
evasive cagey dishonest sort of reaction
right and I give a lot of credit to this
interviewer he doesn't let Norman
wriggle out of it here right like oh yes
well dominating enslaved women that's
just one strand of the fabric that would
be like pretending it's just what
happens to be on the cover but as if the
rest of the books were really concerned
with as he says politics religion
costume and cooking military strategy
weapons to keep in mind John Norman born
in the 1930s still alive today and still
writing books in the 2020s has he has he
in his books addressed any of the major
political issues that arose in his
lifetime he lived through World War two
he lived through the Cold War the rise
and fall of the Soviet Union
right the rise and fall of Mao Zedong in
China
all right the end of the British Empire
British colonialism and the emergence of
new nationalistic movements including
pan-islamism pan-arabism you know the
increasing importance of Islam in
Western politics right September 11th
and so on he's lived through all of this
when he says he's interested in politics
religion sir is there
the evidence of that in his books and
then on the contrary as we're gonna
discuss through this video is there
evidence that he has this unique belief
in the significance of relations between
the genders and that our society must be
transformed to reflect the true inner
nature of women and the kind of
relationships they secretly inwardly
were for men that is very clearly the
exclusive obsession of his books and
that's the key to his philosophical and
political belief that he's doing
something profoundly meaningful in
making a lot of money out of some pretty
sick and twisted and science fiction
fantasy here the interviewer continues I
highlight it your issue that your books
are completely obsessed with you know
domination domination of women by men
exclusively never the other way around I
highlight it because female sexual
slavery seems to me such a prominent
element
lots of credit lots of credit for the
interviewer plenty of people would let
him just wiggle out of this line of
questioning
we've already what he's trying to do
right and in the reactions they generate
the gorian novels imply that women want
this whether they know it or not
Norman replies well there are plenty of
folks such as Anne Rice who are writing
material which is far far quranic and
Rice's Sleeping Beauty trilogy is
light-years beyond anything I would do
even think of doing yet miss rice is a
heroine to many feminists and is
published about one of the houses that
refuses to so much as look at anything
by so he's being very directly asked
about sex slavery in his books and now
we have another form of dishonesty in
division where he's trying to make the
issue that he's a victim of censorship
by feminists there's a lot of that
material in it is introduced and I need
to say this guy's but if what he were
saying here about Anne Rice's novels and
Rice's most famous for vampire novels if
if that were true it would still be
completely utterly irrelevant right like
if Anne Rice's right sexy vampire novels
you didn't answer the question of the
fact that you devoted your life to
glorifying one particular type of
slavery and rape interviewer you are
saying that Gore is an emotionally
healthier society that it's emotionally
healthier than our own in the real world
in 21st century
Norman's replied well for example some
men in our world seem to want to hurt
women
these things are incomprehensible in a
gorian world but they make some sense in
our world a world in which natural
relationships tend to be denied hey you
were that asks denied how oh you're
giving him just enough rope to hang
himself John Norman leaps at the chance
to answer that question the male cheated
of his manhood desires to inflict pain
and revenge the fee for womanhood
accepts and perhaps even desires pain
perhaps to punish herself for deserting
her defensive right really think about
what he's doing here directly he's lying
to you he's being deceptive dishonest
evasive and like he is directly lying to
you in claiming that men do not hurt
women in his fictional world of God all
right that is a lie but he's also
inviting you in a very real sense to
blame the victim in our world that women
who are the victims of rape and sexual
violence that in fact he's suggesting we
should instead feel sympathy or pity for
the men because they are quote unquote
cheated of their manhood and desire to
inflict pain in revenge because of this
this sickness in our modern society that
he he alone John Norman is trying to
solve just just how much of a lie is it
just how dishonest is it for him to say
these things are incomprehensible on the
corium world no nobody gets hurt in his
fab
it would be easy to imagine some other
author writing a book based on their own
sexual fantasy or even based on their
political philosophy which Norman is
you're doing where nobody gets hurt in
fiction anything is possible
quote misogynist manifesto this one star
review really means zero the book
asserts that what all women including
intelligent well-educated women really
want is to be abused degraded humiliated
by powerful brutal men and shared with
other men the women begged to be sold
into slavery rather than killed you can
guess what the alpha males decided and
he notes that he is a male reviewer this
is the single most sexist book I've ever
read I'm a guy still this entire thing
is offensive and degrading to women the
ideas behind the story could have led to
an interesting sci-fi take on time
travel instead it's mostly about rape
and subjugation of women this all sounds
pretty standard and it is but right
around page 50s when Norman starts in
with his bizarre dongs selves
philosophies so the whole story becomes
murky before Hamilton can be sent back
to the distant past in the hopes that
she will join a group of cro-magnon men
her will must be broken by her Ellison's
lackeys until she is deemed ready for
the submissive slave slave-like
existence for the submissive slave like
existence that awaits her here's the old
cranks explanation to Hamilton before
she shoves her into a box for a one-way
trip to the Stone Age you must
understand said healer so that if you
were transmitted as a modern woman
irritable sexless hostile competitive
hating men your opportunities for
survival might be considerably less
quote I'm a prisoner she said and I want
to be [ __ ] like a prisoner used
exclamation point closed quote time
slave wouldn't be a John Norman book if
women didn't revel in their captivity
which brings us to the middle of the
book where things get real
Brenda Hamilton transported to an
unfamiliar time is naked and running
through the forest with a leopard in
pursuit when she runs into three a
red-blooded cro-magnon hunter at page
143 is the first of many there
unfortunate rape scenes in this book
some go on for pages
none are really necessary the next 100
pages chronicle Brenda's transformation
from a caricature of a fully realized
woman to a whimpering sex-obsessed slave
of course this being a John Norman novel
she revels in this change and feels that
she has finally become a true woman in
quotation marks for the first time in
her life she felt the fantastic
sentience of an owned loving female she
had just begun under the hands of a
primeval hunter to learn the capacities
of her femaleness close quote
regrettably more than half of this novel
is lent to Norman's BDSM leadings which
involve a repetitive preachy tone
because the man is literally trying to
convert you how can he say that in our
world some men want to hurt women
whereas in his fictional world this is
inconceivable frankly how dare you John
Owen the interviewer asks elsewhere you
have made the point that gore and
society is decentralized and pluralistic
would you want a gorian society to
actually be created his reply it seems
possible that a gorian world might be
the best possible world empirically
given human realities it would not be a
utopian world now apart from the obvious
and important questions of morality and
ethics here like sex slavery being the
ideal way to reorganize Society um you
wouldn't prefer to live in a world that
had electricity flushing toilets paper
pencils pens like why would this one
factor of having access to sex slaves
and being in a society that normalizes
this kind of rape and violence towards
women why would that one a factor alone
make this quote the best possible world
empirically for human nature the
interviewer I give them a
lot of credit presses this point that
obviously John Norman has spent his
whole life evading many people who
express tolerance over people's private
lives and private fantasies become
militant if those philosophies are
forcibly imposed on others so this is
asking the right question the crucial
question in the most polite and tactful
way imaginable the interviewers saying
very clearly we're not talking about
fantasy we're not talking about dress-up
playtime between two consenting adults
middle-class bourgeois decadent people
who just want to pretend to be slaves or
pretend to be raping each other we're
talking about actual rape actual slavery
and a political philosophy written by
you John Norman that glorifies and
propounds these things as the greatest
possible society the most suitable for
human nature Shaw Norman replies the
philosophies of statism authoritarianism
and collectivism are being imposed
forcibly on the American people by the
bayonets and guns of the state sound a
little bit familiar
John Norman's biggest secret was the
extent to which he was ripping off an R
and an R and is a terrible writer to
begin with and a terrible philosopher
and a terrible economist it's a whole
other story
but if this kind of verbiage doesn't
sound familiar to you take a look at an
Rand or what her immediate followers and
fans had to say about life in the 20th
century United States of America hi yes
mmmmmm yes what a deep analysis of what
America was like from 1980 to 2020 the
American people being forced
but the pigments and guns of the state
does this even seem like someone with a
PhD in philosophy offering a critique of
the life in the contemporary nights as
America but this is how he justifies his
own mission to save the world his own
mission to liberate his fellow man from
this repressive regime that won't let
people
enslave and sexually dominate one other
Danton
[Music]